In Liberty City, Miami, Juan finds Chiron, a withdrawn child who goes by the nickname "Little", hiding from a pack of bullies. Taking Chiron back to his house, Juan allows Chiron to spend the night with him and his girlfriend Teresa. The next morning, Juan returns Chiron to his emotionally abusive mother Paula.
Chiron continues to spend time with Juan, who teaches him how to swim and advises him to make his own path. One night, Juan observes Paula smoking crack with one of his customers. Juan berates her for smoking while Paula rebukes him for selling it in the first place. Ashamed, she takes out her frustrations on Chiron upon returning home.
The next day, Chiron admits to Juan and Teresa that he hates his mother. He then asks Juan about the meaning of the word "faggot", which he has been called at school. Juan replies it is okay to be gay and that he should not allow people to mock him for it. After asking Juan whether or not he sold drugs to Paula, Chiron leaves as Juan hangs his head in shame.
Now a teenager, Chiron juggles avoiding his classmate Terrel, who frequently bullies him, and spending time with Teresa, who has lived alone since Juan's death. Paula has become addicted to crack and prostitutes herself to support her addiction, frequently coercing Chiron into giving her money that Teresa loans him.
One night, Chiron has a dream in which his closest friend Kevin has sex with a woman. On another night, Kevin visits Chiron at the beach near his house. While smoking a blunt, the two discuss their respective ambitions and the nickname, "Black", that Kevin has given Chiron. After a charged moment, they kiss, and Kevin gives Chiron a handjob.
The next morning, Terrel pressures Kevin into participating in a hazing ritual. Kevin reluctantly punches Chiron until he is unable to get up before Terrel and several others stomp on him. Chiron later meets with a social worker, who urges him to reveal the identities of his attackers. He refuses, however, as he believes that reporting them will not solve anything. The next day, Chiron smashes a chair into Terrel's back. As the police arrest Chiron, he glares at a helpless Kevin.
